2.1 
https://www.iseoblue.com/post/an-introduction-to-iso27001-information-security
https://www.isms.online/iso-27001/
Information Security Management System
This is a systematic approach to managing a company’s sensitive information. This component encompasses people processes and IT systems by applying a risk management process. The process helps organisations protect their information in a way that is efficient, consistent, and cost-efficient. It is crucial to establish an ISMS in order for organisations to aim at protecting their intellectual property, financial data, employee details, or any information entrusted to them by third parties. ISEOBLUE
 
Risk Assessment and Treatment
Information security risk management formulates the foundation of an effective ISMS, providing guidelines for performing risk assessment and treatment. ISO 27001 requires organisations to perform regular assessments to identify the information security risks associated with their information assets. Now, these risks will then be analyzed and evaluated to determine how they affect the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the information. After going through with the risk assessment, an organization should apply appropriate techniques to mitigate, transfer, accept, or avoid the risks. It is vital to document these risks and their treatment so that demonstrating compliance with ISO 27001 is straight-forward. ISEOBLUE

ISO 27001 Controls
The ISO 27001:2022 outlines a comprehensive set of ISO 27001 controls within Annex A, which outlines a set of 93 security controls, which are then grouped into four themes which include organizational, people, physical, and technological. It is designed to address various aspects of information security. These controls include measures for access control, cryptography, incident management and physical security, among others. When these controls are implemented, it will ensure that the organisation’s ISMS effectively mitigates risks and safeguarding sensitive information. ISMSONLINE

Statement of Applicability (SoA)
This is a critical document that clearly outlines the control objectives and controls that have relevancy in the orgainsation’s ISMS. This document serves as a declaration of which of the standard’s 114 controls from Annex A, which has been explained in the ISO 27001 controls section, have been selected and applied within the organisations. It also provides justification for inclusion or exclusion of these controls, which reflect how each decision supports the management of information security risks. The SoA has an insurance that all stakeholders are aware of which controls are implemented and provides evidence of the organisation’s commitment to information security. ISEOBLUE

Continuous Improvement
There’s an emphasis of the importance of continuous improvement by the ISO 27001 through the Plan-DO-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle. An iterative process will ensure that the ISMS remains effective and responsive to internal and external changes. Organisations can identify areas that require improvement and take corrective actions by continually monitoring and reviewing the system’s performance. This will not only enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the ISMS but also aligns the organisations
